AUXILIARY TEXT ONLY / CORE / verify renders

[pdf-31-core-right | PDF 31 | core | bbox=[315, 309.4529, 567, 744]]
9.0 SPECIAL COMBAT UNITS
9.1 WAR ELEPHANTS
HISTORICAL NOTE: Despite their drawbacks, war elephants
were immensely popular from the era of the Diadochi (Alex-
ander’s successors) through the days of the Roman Republic
(even the Romans used them—cf. Cynoscephalae— although
not often). By the time of Pyrrhus, war elephants became
equipped with “towers” and their compatriot cavalry had
also become trained to work alongside them. Unfortunately,
the flexibility of the Roman legion system eventually negated
their advantages, leaving them with a host of disadvantages
which doomed them as relics.
9.11 Elephant Pass-Thru: An infantry unit being
attacked through one of its Front hexes by an Ele-
phant unit marked SHOCK MUST CHECK TQ, may
attempt to allow the Elephant unit to pass through its
hex. This decision must be made prior to the Pre-Shock TQ Check
die roll (8.43) and may be elected only if at least one of the de-
fender’s Rear hexes is unoccupied. Pass-Thru is not allowed if:
• an infantry unit is attacked through a Flank or Rear.
• an Elephant unit is attacking along with other units.
• the infantry unit was in an enemy ZOC at the start of the Orders
Phase.
Pass-Thru may be used by two defending infantry units if both
units meet the preceding conditions. If the player decides against
Pass-Thru, Shock proceeds normally.
If the player decides to allow the Pass-Thru, do the following:
1. Apply a +1 DRM to the infantry unit’s Pre-Shock TQ Check
DR.
2. Proceed with the Shock resolution procedure but halve (round
down) Cohesion Hits to the defending unit and reduce the
Cohesion Hits to the Elephant unit by 1.

[pdf-32-core-left | PDF 32 | core | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 744]]
3. After the Shock Combat is resolved, if the infantry unit did
not rout and the Elephant unit has not rampaged (9.14), place
the Elephant unit in either one of the defender’s unoccupied
Rear hexes (Elephant player’s choice), maintaining its facing.
4. The defending unit, other than a Skirmisher unit, now un-
dergoes a Pass-Thru TQ Check. Subtract the unit’s TQ from
the DR, with any excess being the number of Cohesion Hits
now applied (DR–TQ=Hits).
DESIGN NOTE: Most infantry were trained to (attempt to)
avoid an elephant charge by allowing the elephants to pass
through their ranks. The maneuver did neutralize some of the
elephant’s power, but at some cost in cohesion to the rank-
splitting units.
9.12 Elephant Screens: Elephants were quite vulnerable to
missile attacks, and, to protect against this, armies surrounded
each Elephant with its own light screen of skirmishers, usually
archers represented by the small “a” on the counter. The firepower
is much less than normal archer units, to account for the size of
the screen and its tactical use.
Elephant Screens can Missile Fire with Reaction Fire (8.2) only,
using the Elephant Screen row on the MRRC. Elephant Screens
have their own missile supply markers. Leader elephants do not
have screens (they usually did, but they were too small to be a
factor).
9.13 Tower Riders: The riders atop elephants were armed with
javelins and are treated as Mounted Javelinists for Missile Fire
purposes. The Elephant unit may use Reaction Fire with both its
javelins and its screen, with the player rolling separately for each.
DESIGN NOTE: Several historians portray Hannibal’s
elephants without “towers.” Makes no difference, the rule
remains the same.
9.14 Elephant Rampage: When an Elephant unit routs, it Ram-
pages. Leader Elephants also Rampage, but they have less of a
chance of doing so. Each time an Elephant unit routs, its player
rolls the die and does one of the following, depending on the DR:
Die Roll Result
0 The Elephant unit heads in the direction of the
nearest friendly unit, opposing player’s choice
if there is more than one nearest unit. A Leader
Elephant is eliminated.
1–6 The Elephant unit heads in the direction indicated
on the Compass on the map, an example of which
is given below. Note that geographical direction
is represented at the vertex; the direction in which
the Elephant is to Rampage is by hexside.

[pdf-32-core-right | PDF 32 | core | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 744]]
7–9 On the first Rampage DR, the Elephant heads
in the direction directly away from the unit that
caused the rampage. A 7-9 on any subsequent
die roll means the elephant’s mahout has been
successful in stopping the rampage by driving a
wedge into the beast’s brain; the Elephant unit is
eliminated. If it is a Leader Elephant, the unit is,
instead, immediately rallied with Cohesion Hits
equal to its TQ minus 2.
Each Elephant Rampage is always resolved immediately, before
any other game mechanic is addressed, except for Orderly With-
drawal in face of the rampaging elephant (6.51).
EXAMPLE: The above diagram shows the elephant unit refaced
after a Rampage die roll of 1. This is just an example; use the
compass on the map for each battle.
A rampaging Elephant and any stacked leader with it always
attempt to move 3 hexes per directional die roll in the indicated
direction until it either moves off the map or is otherwise elimi-
nated. If a rampaging Elephant unit would enter a hex occupied
by a unit, whether enemy or friendly, the Elephant unit stops in
the adjacent hex and the unit incurs 1 Cohesion Hit if the Elephant
would have entered through a Front hex or 2 Cohesion Hits if it
would have entered through a Flank or Rear hex. A cavalry unit
incurs 2 Cohesion Hits regardless of the angle.
If the affected units are a stack, both units receive the Cohesion
Hits. If there is a leader in the hex (alone or stacked with a unit),
and he cannot withdraw (see 4.72), he is tragically impaled on
the elephant’s tusks, tossed high in the air, and then crushed to
death under its feet. All that without a die roll!
The player now rolls again, as above, repeating the process until:
• The Elephant unit rampages off the map, or
• The Elephant unit is eliminated (7-9 mahout DR), or
• The Elephant unit is at least 8 hexes from the nearest unit, in
which case it is eliminated, or
• If none of the above, after the 4th consecutive Rampage DR,
the Elephant unit is eliminated.
A leader stacked with a rampaging Elephant goes along with
the Elephant on the Rampage. When the Rampage ends, the
player rolls for a leader casualty (4.73). If the leader survives,
he remains on the map where the Elephant ended the Rampage.
If the Elephant Rampages off the map, both the Elephant and
leader are eliminated.
Rampaging elephants have no ZOC, do not trigger Reaction
Fire of any kind, and they may not be rallied. Each Rampage is

[pdf-33-core-left | PDF 33 | core | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 744]]
undertaken until its conclusion, so there may never be more than
one rampaging Elephant unit at any one time.
DESIGN NOTE: Historically, the mahouts were trained to use
“the wedge” on any berserk elephants. With each counter rep-
resenting 5 elephants, the rule represents the 1 or 2 elephants
they could not dispatch immediately.
9.15 Cavalry vs. Elephants: Cavalry units may never voluntarily
move into the ZOC of an enemy Elephant unit. They may move
into or through an enemy Elephant’s Flank or Rear hexes but
at the cost of 2 Cohesion Hits for each such hex entered. This
cohesion penalty also applies if the cavalry unit is forced to enter
an Elephant ZOC. Cavalry may never attack an enemy Elephant
through the latter’s Front hexes; they may attack through the
Elephant unit’s Flank or Rear hexes, but they do not gain the
usual Attack Superiority for such an attack.
9.16 Elephants vs. Cavalry: If an Elephant unit moves adjacent
to an enemy cavalry unit from a non-adjacent hex, the cavalry
must attempt Orderly Withdrawal. The cavalry unit cannot use
any form of Reaction Fire if it can withdraw. If the cavalry unit
cannot withdraw, it must undergo an immediate TQ check. If
the DR is higher than a unit’s TQ, it incurs Cohesion Hits equal
to the difference between the DR result and its TQ, with a mini-
mum result of 1 Cohesion Hit. If the cavalry unit is routed, it is
automatically eliminated, no DR necessary. This rule does not
apply to Leader Elephants.
9.17 In any instance where Elephant units attack other Elephant
units, neither side may gain Position Superiority. Thus, one
Elephant attacking another Elephant through the latter’s Flank/
Rear does not gain Attack Superiority.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Elephants did not fight in formations.
9.18 Unless the rules specifically state otherwise, Elephant units
may be commanded by any leader.
9.19 Indians vs. Africans: In addition to the notes on the Clash of
Spears and Swords and Shock Superiority Charts, the following
rule is in effect when Indian Elephants fight African Elephants:
African Elephants incur a +1 DRM to their Pre-Shock die rolls
(8.43).
HISTORICAL NOTE: The argument over which family of
elephants was best—or even which type was available at any
given battle—has been argued long and hard for many years.
The two basic groups were the large Indian elephants and the
smaller (and purportedly less warlike) “Forest” elephants
of northern Africa. The large elephants of southern Africa
were unknown at that time. For game purposes, the Indians
are slightly better vis-à-vis other unit types (they are bigger,
making it tougher to reach the riders, and they took to warfare
somewhat better than their African cousins). In terms of who
was better in a head-to-head confrontation (which is an ac-
curate description as to how elephants fought), our sole “an-
cient” source of information is the battle of Raphia (217 B.C.),
in which Antiochus’ Indians completely blew away Ptolemy’s
Africans (although Antiochus lost the battle).

[pdf-33-core-right | PDF 33 | core | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 744]]
9.2 SKIRMISHERS, VELITES, AND LIGHT
INFANTRY
DESIGN NOTE: Skirmisher units were truly ill-suited for
Shock Combat; they were, in fact, trained to avoid it. Skirmish-
ers rarely had any armor protection, and the only weapons
they carried were their bows, slings, or javelins. They fought
dispersed in “open” formation, and their intent was to delay,
harass and screen (although they were quite effective against
elephants and chariots). Velites were the first line of a legionary
deployment. Although more heavily armed than skirmishers,
their function and training were much the same. Their forma-
tion, however, was not so “open”, and they are not treated as
skirmishers; they are Light Infantry, which also have some
added maneuver capabilities.
9.21 Orderly Withdrawal: Skirmishers may Orderly
Withdraw up to 2 hexes before any units whose MA
is the same or less (i.e., all infantry units), regardless
of the MA differential. The only time Skirmishers
incur Cohesion Hits when using OW is after being approached
from a Rear hex. The only time Velites incur Cohesion Hits from
OW is after being approached from a Flank or Rear hex.
9.22 Missile Fire: There is a +2 DRM to the Missile Fire DR
whenever a Skirmisher unit is the target. Skirmisher and Light
Infantry Archers (Class A) cannot use H&D fire. Light Cavalry
(all missile classes) cannot use H&D against Skirmishers..
9.23 Shock Combat: Skirmishers have the following restrictions
when involved in Shock Combat:
• Skirmishers cannot Shock attack.
• All units that Shock attack Skirmishers alone do not have
to make a Pre-Shock TQ even if they have SHOCK MUST
CHECK TQ markers.
• If a Skirmisher unit is defending in coordination with any other
unit type, the other Type must be chosen as the defender. The
Size rating of the Skirmisher is ignored.
• Any Cohesion Hits inflicted by Skirmishers in Shock Combat
are halved (round down) with a maximum of 1 Cohesion Hit.
• Phalanx (PH), Heavy Infantry (HI), and Legion Infantry (LG)
units that are attacked from a Front hex by Light Infantry (LI)
do not undergo a Pre-Shock TQ check even if the attackers have
SHOCK MUST CHECK TQ markers, though the attacking LI
still do. The reverse is not true; PH, HI and LG do undergo a
Pre-Shock TQ check when attacking LI.
EXAMPLE: Thus, if a Light Infantry attacking a Skirmisher
would produce an unadjusted result on the Shock Results Table
of 1(4), the actual result would be 0(4).
9.24 Other situations:
• Skirmishers that Rout are eliminated instead.
• Skirmishers do not make an Elephant Pass-Thru Check (9.11).
• See 6.69 for special stacking rules for Skirmishers and Velites.
Skirmishers can change facing at no MP cost and can move
more than once per Game Turn without a Cohesion cost.
• When determining lines for a Line Command (4.32), the pres-
ence of a Velites or Skirmisher unit does not disrupt the line if

[pdf-34-core-left | PDF 34 | core | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 744]]
the interruption is caused by only one such unit.
EXAMPLE: There are Hastati in 2808, Velites in 2809, and Has-
tati in 2810. This would still be eligible to be a line. However,
if there were Velites in 2809 and 2810 and the Hastati in 2808
and 2811, the two Hastati would not form a line. If there were
Hastati in 2808, 2810, and 2812, with Velites in 2809 and 2811,
the Hastati could form a line.
9.3 LIGHT CAVALRY
9.31 Missile-armed Light Cavalry may use H&D fire (8.3) against
all units with a lower MA, except Skirmishers. Light Cavalry
Archers can fire when they use Orderly Withdrawal (6.55).
9.32 Any Cohesion Hits inflicted by attacking Light Cavalry
against a Phalanx or a Heavy, Medium, Legion, or Barbarian
Infantry unit are halved (round down).
EXAMPLE: A Light Cavalry unit with Attack Superiority (AS)
against a Heavy Infantry unit would use the printed result on
the Shock CRT.
9.4 PHALANX DEFENSE
9.41 In any Shock Resolution in which a unit moves adjacent to
and Shock attacks a Phalanx from the defender’s Front hex, the
Phalanx earns a 2L shift on the Shock Combat CRT for each of
its Flank hexes either occupied by another friendly Phalanx unit
or in the ZOC of a friendly Phalanx unit. If the attacker is Heavy
Infantry (any Class), the shift is 1L instead. This applies only to
moving attacks, not to attacks in which the attacking unit started
adjacent to the Phalanx unit and stayed in that hex to Shock. It
also does not apply to Flank/Rear attacks, or if any attacker is
also a Phalanx unit.
EXAMPLE: If 2 LGs attack a PH frontally that has other PH
units in each Flank hex, the Shock attack is resolved, assuming
no other adjustments, on the 1 column (they start in 5 and get
shuffled 4L to 1). This means that, on average per Shock, the PH
will take 1, maybe 2 Hits; but each LG will take 2 or 3.
DESIGN NOTE: This reflects the remarkable defensive
capabilities that this wall of sarissa had, especially against
the initial charge by the enemy. Once inside the sarissa, the
attackers stood a better chance of cracking the Phalanx. The
reduced effect for Heavy Infantry reflects the fact that they
were spear-armed too.

[pdf-34-core-right | PDF 34 | core | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 744]]
9.5 DOUBLE DEPTH PHALANXES
DESIGN NOTE: To increase the crushing pressure of the Pha-
lanxes, post-Alexandrian commanders using the Macedonian
system often implemented a formation which doubled their
depth. Eligible units are listed in the scenario-specific rules.
9.51 Phalanxes may use Double-Depth (DD) formation, which al-
lows them to stack two to a hex. Forming Double-Depth requires
an Individual Order or Line Command, directly from the OC. To
form Double-Depth, the stacking, “back” Phalanx must start its
movement in the hex directly behind the “front” Phalanx. The
“back” Phalanx then moves into the front Phalanx’s hex, paying
normal terrain costs, and expends 1 MP in addition to the terrain
cost to stack. The “back” Phalanx is then placed underneath the
“front” Phalanx. This completes the movement for both units
for that Orders Phase.
9.52 Movement Restrictions: Double Depth formation has the
following effects:
• The units may receive orders only from the OC.
• They may move as one unit, but it takes 2 Individual Orders
(when using Individual Orders) to move both units together.
They may use Pre-Arranged Withdrawal (6.8).
• The units may not Wheel (6.44), Reverse (6.45), or use Col-
umn (6.7). Unstacking requires an Individual Order or Line
Command as above, at which time the top unit moves off at
normal costs. The bottom unit must remain in place.
• The units always use their 4 MA; they never use their 5 MA
for anything. For any movement that would incur a Cohesion
Hit, both units incur the Hit.
• No unit, of any type, may ever move through or into a Double
Depth stack. Treat them as impassable terrain.
9.53 Combat Effects: Double Depth formation has the follow-
ing effects on combat:
• The Sizes of both units are combined.
• Only the top unit is used for TQ checks (unless attacked from
the rear, in which case it’s the bottom unit). However, if that
unit incurs any Cohesion Hits, then the other unit checks.
• Units defending against a Shock attack by units in Double
Depth incur a +1 DRM to their Pre-Shock TQ check die rolls.
• Defending units at Double Depth earn a –1 DRM to their Pre-
Shock TQ check die rolls. Phalanx Defense (9.41) also applies.
• If a Double Depth stack is Shock attacked from a Flank or
Rear hex, the defender Cohesion Hits are tripled (3x) instead
of doubled.
• Cohesion Hits from Shock are distributed equally between the
two units, with any odd Hits going to the top unit. Cohesion Hits
from Missile Fire Hits apply only to the top unit unless fire is
through a Rear hex, in which case Hits apply to the bottom unit.
• If either unit in the stack routs, they both rout. The units must
retreat to separate hexes. If this is not possible, the unit is
eliminated instead.
EXAMPLE: See the scenario rules for Cynoscephalae.

[pdf-35-core-left | PDF 35 | core | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 744]]
9.6 THE ROMAN MANIPULAR LEGION
HISTORICAL NOTE: The major advance in the science of mili-
tary tactics in this era was the “manipular” legion, as devel-
oped by Rome starting somewhere in the late 3rd century B.C.
It allowed the Roman strengths—training and discipline—to be
translated into a tactical flexibility that often proved superior,
even when her generals were not. Therefore, Roman armies
have certain advantages, most of which have been discussed
above and are summarized in this section.
9.61 See the Stacking Charts for a summary of the legionary
stacking advantages. For Romans, the rule of thumb is that two
Roman infantry units of the same border color can stack without
penalty. There are exceptions, such as Velites. A Roman stack
may move together when necessary or desired. It takes two In-
dividual Orders to move two stacked units (only one, if stacked
with the OC, and he is giving the orders), but only one LC, if they
are both eligible. Roman infantry units are also allowed spaces
between them when determining lines; see 4.32.
9.62 Stacked Roman units combine their Size when attacking or
defending, but all other ratings, especially TQ, are those of the
top unit. Stacked Romans must Shock attack the same hex; see
8.42. Only the top unit may fire. Each unit makes its own TQ
check but uses the TQ of the top unit. Automatic Cohesion Hits
(6.68) are applied to each unit in the stack. Cohesion Hits from
Shock resolution 8.46 Step 4 are allocated per 10.13.
9.63 For stacked Roman units with different border colors, or of
the same border color and different classes, there is a +1 DRM
to all TQ checks.
9.64 Roman Stacking order may be changed/switched only by
an Individual Order; it may not be part of movement or a Line
Command, although facing may be changed by LC. If the player
desires to move only one unit from a stack, only the top unit
may move.
9.65 Roman infantry pay 1 MP cost for changing facing, but,
unlike most other units, they may change any number of vertices.
Original Deployment
After Manipular Line Extension
9.66 Manipular Line Extension: Stacked Roman units with
unoccupied flank hexes can extend their line as part of a Line
Command or in reaction to enemy movement, instead of using
Orderly Withdrawal. To undertake Manipular Line Extension
(MLE), all the top units in the stacks in the same Line (see 4.32)

[pdf-35-core-right | PDF 35 | core | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 744]]
may move sideways into the vacant flank hexes (see the diagram
above). If a Flank hex is occupied, MLE cannot be used to place
a unit in that hex. The hex entered by MLE must be Clear and
not in an enemy ZOC. Facing remains the same. This rule only
applies to unstacking the units; it does not apply to stacking
them together.
9.67 Manipular Line Extension may be undertaken as a reaction
to enemy movement the instant an enemy combat unit comes
within 2 hexes of a line of stacked Roman units. The Roman
player may make his choice at any time any enemy unit so places
itself (that is, he does not have to exercise his MLE rights the first
time they become available). If enemy movement triggers both
Orderly Withdrawal as well as MLE, both may be undertaken
together but not by the same units.
EXAMPLE: A Velites unit sitting between two Hastati stacks may
withdraw through the gaps in a Hastati line upon approach of,
say, an enemy Phalanx and, as soon as that unit is through the
gap, the Hastati line may undergo MLE.
9.68 Manipular Line Extension may also be undertaken as part
of a Line Command (only). If undertaken as an LC, both units
may move after the MLE but with their MA reduced by 2. There
are no Cohesion Hits applied for the MLE. Units in Column may
not use MLE.
9.7 ROMAN TRIARII TACTICAL DOCTRINE
This rule must be used with any battle involving Romans that took
place prior to 200 BCE in which Scipio Africanus is not pres-
ent as Overall Commander (and, yes, even though, historically,
Scipio was at Cannae, for game purposes he wasn’t, so use it at
Cannae). It represents the way Romans used their Triarii, and,
for Rome, doctrine was the equivalent of unassailable dogma.
9.71 Triarii units cannot move, but may change facing, until and
unless one of the following occurs:
• There is an enemy combat unit, other than an Elephant unit,
which is within 3 hexes and LOS of any unit in the Triarii line,
or
• The Triarii units are at least 6 hexes from all other Roman or
Ala—but not allied–infantry lines, be they Hastati, Principes
or whatever.
9.72 Triarii units cannot move and Shock attack unless and until
the Roman army has Rout Points equal to at least one-half of
its Army Withdrawal Level (round down). They may always,
however, Shock attack (without moving) against enemy units
in their ZOC.

[pdf-36-core-left | PDF 36 | core | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 744]]
9.8 ARTILLERY
9.81 Scorpios are Bolt-firing (B) engines with built-
in crews. The Scorpios have a TQ rating, and they
are treated as Light Infantry (LI) for movement and
when defending in Shock Combat or against Missile
Fire. Scorpio units are not Shock-capable and their only offensive
combat capability is to Missile Fire.
9.82 A Scorpio is in either Fire or Move mode. It requires an
Individual Order from any friendly leader to change its mode.
Scorpios in Move mode cannot fire, and conversely, cannot
move in Fire mode. A Scorpio that has had its mode changed to
Move cannot move in that Orders Phase, nor can a Scorpio that
has had its mode switched to Fire, fire in that Orders Phase. A
Scorpio unit in Move mode requires an Individual Order from
any friendly leader to move. Scorpio units do not need orders to
fire (see 9.85 below).
PLAY NOTE: The front side of the counter shows the unit in
Fire mode; the reverse side in Move mode.
9.83 Only one Scorpio unit may occupy any one hex. All other
stacking rules apply.
9.84 Scorpio units have no facing; they may move or fire in any
direction, regardless of the direction the actual counter is pointed.
All hexes are considered Front hexes.
9.85 Active Fire: Scorpios may fire of-
fensively twice per Game Turn (not Orders
Phase) during any friendly Orders Phase.
They do not need an order to fire and can
fire at any time during the active player’s Movement and Missile
Fire Segment, no more than one shot per Orders Phase. The first
time a Scorpio unit fires, place an ACTIVE FIRE ONCE mark-
er on it. The second time it fires, flip the marker to its ACTIVE
FIRE FINISHED side. A Scorpio that fires cannot do anything
else that Orders Phase (such as recover Hits).
9.86 Reaction Fire: Scorpios may fire twice per enemy Orders
Phase at any time during the enemy Movement and Missile Seg-
ment—and we mean “any”; they may fire even during enemy
movement! The first time the Scorpio unit fires, place
a REACTION FIRE ONCE marker on it. The second
time it fires, flip the marker to its REACTION FIRE
FINISHED side. Scorpios, however, cannot use any
type of ordinary Reaction Fire (8.2).
9.87 Scorpios incur and recover Cohesion Hits as any other unit.
A Scorpio that routs is immediately eliminated.
9.9 THE BARBARIANS
DESIGN NOTE: These rules reflect the capabilities and li-
abilities of the Celtic tribes that fought the Romans for control
of northern Italy during the period covered by SPQR.
9.91 Movement Effects
Barbarian Infantry (BI) units do not incur Cohesion Hits for
crossing or entering any type of passable terrain, nor do they
incur Cohesion Hits for changing facing in Rough terrain. BI units

[pdf-36-core-right | PDF 36 | core | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 744]]
cannot use Column Movement (6.7), Pre-Arranged Withdrawal
(6.8), or Orderly Withdrawal (6.5).
9.93 Rout and Recovery
BI units can only remove 1 Cohesion Hit per Recovery order.
Depleted BI units do not Rout but are instead eliminated.
9.94 Barbarian Ferocity
DESIGN NOTE: This rule represents the feared, initial charge
of tribal-style warfare, into which the locals seemed to inject
all their pent-up anger, determination and initial enthusiasm.
Tribal tactics were simple: a big rush designed to swiftly break
the back of their opponent. It was usually quite effective, except
against a disciplined, professional army.
All BI units start the game with Ferocity. A BI unit with Ferocity
earns a –1 DRM to its Pre-Shock TQ die roll while penalizing
the defending unit(s) with a +2 DRM to their Pre-Shock TQ die
roll(s).
Ferocity continues until the BI’s leader (as given in the scenario
setup) fails a Ferocity check, which the player conducts each
time a BI unit Routs. The player rolls the die and compares it to
the leader’s Initiative Rating. If the DR is the same or lower, BI
units retain their Ferocity, otherwise Ferocity is permanently lost
for BI under the command of that leader. The loss of Ferocity for
the units under one leader has no effect on the Ferocity of units
under the command of different leaders.
9.95 Barbarian Impetuosity
At the start of a battle, the Gauls usually worked themselves into
a fever pitch, which translated into an all-out charge. To reflect
this, at the start of a game, all BI units have their MA increased
by 1. Leaders that command BI units receive a –1 DRM to all
first-try Momentum die rolls. Impetuosity lasts until at least two
BI units of a leader’s command enter an enemy ZOC, at which
point Impetuosity continues for the rest of the Game Turn, after
which it is lost. Only the BI units in that command (per the sce-
nario setup) are affected.
9.96 Gallic Chariots
DESIGN NOTE: The chariots used by the Gallic tribes were
not, in any way, weapons systems. They were used only for
transport. Their only resemblance to the war chariots of “days
gone by” was that they had wheels. Thus, ignore the reference
to Chariots on the Combat Tables. However, the tribes were
quite adept at using them to whatever advantage they did of-
fer. In this module, chariots make an appearance at Sentinum
and Telamon.
Gallic Chariot (CH) units have only a Movement Allowance;
they have no Size and no TQ Rating. These units cannot move
at all, and this includes Orderly Withdrawal, unless stacked with
an eligible Light Infantry (LI) unit. If an enemy combat unit (of
any type) moves adjacent to a CH unit alone in a hex, the CH
unit is immediately eliminated.
Each CH unit may carry one Light Infantry (LI) unit. To denote
that a LI unit is mounted on the CH unit, place the CH on top of
the LI unit. The combined CH and LI unit is treated as a single

[pdf-37-core-left | PDF 37 | core | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 392.6396]]
unit for stacking purposes. All other stacking restrictions apply
to both a CH+LI stack and a CH alone in the hex. There is no MP
or Cohesion Hit cost to the LI unit to either mount or dismount
from a CH. However, a dismounting LI unit may continue to
move only if the LI+CH combination moved less than the LI’s
printed Movement Allowance. The number of MP allowed is
equal to the difference. Conversely, an LI unit mounting a CH
can continue to move (as a mounted CH) up to the MA of the
CH unit less the number of MP already used by the LI prior to
mounting the CH. While stacked with an LI, the CH expends
MP to enter/cross terrain or is prohibited from entering/crossing
terrain per the Movement Cost Chart. However, Cohesion Hits
for movement are applied to the LI only; CH units do not suffer
Hits for Movement/Terrain.
LI mounted on CH units have the following special abilities/
liabilities:
• LI do not suffer any Cohesion Hits for moving a second (and
third) time in a Game Turn, if they spend the entire Orders
Phase mounted on the CH unit.
• LI cannot Shock attack; they must dismount to do so. When
mounted, they defend as LI.
• LI may use Missile Fire using the Mounted Javelin row on the
MRRC. Missile Supply (8.17) does not apply while the LI unit
is mounted. Remove any MiSSile low/No markers from the LI
unit when the unit mounts a CH. They may use Harassment
and Dispersal fire as if they were cavalry units.
