AUXILIARY TEXT ONLY / CONTEXT / verify renders

[pdf-31-context-left | PDF 31 | context | bbox=[45, 45, 297, 744]]
the pursuing unit is required to advance, it does not check again
for Cavalry Pursuit. The cavalry unit advances per 8.5 unless all
defenders were Routed at the start of the combat and eliminated,
in which case the cavalry unit instead moves ½ of its MA (round
up) or full MA in the same manner as bullet #1, above.
PLAY NOTE: This will usually place the victorious cavalry
unit out of range of its leader, and the player must then decide
what the best course is for this situation.
If the routed enemy unit moves off the map, the pursuing cavalry
unit and any stacked leaders are placed off map. The exit hex for
purposes of 8.64 is the hex where the routed unit left the map.
• Break-Off: The cavalry unit Advances after Combat (8.5).
8.63 Cavalry units that either Break-Off or Pursue
are Finished for the Game Turn; they may not be
ordered to move or fire but may recover Hits. They
cannot Shock attack but may react (6.5, 8.2, etc.) and
defend normally. Mark these units with a PURSUIT/FINISHED
marker after resolving the Break-Off/Pursuit.
EXAMPLE: [Zama] A Hastati unit in hex 2728 is charged by
Carthaginian HC (TQ=7) and routed. The Hastati retreats to
2527 and in checking for pursuit, the Carthaginian rolls a 8, and
he is off in hot pursuit. The cavalry moves into hex 2628 and it at-
tacks again, routing the fleeing Hastati unit, eliminating it. It then
advances 4 MP in the direction the fleeing Hastati was headed.
PLAY NOTE: The routing player, where possible and reason-
able, should have his fleeing units avoid contact with his own
units. The key word is, of course, “reasonable” ... and, in cases
of bitter dispute, the pursuing player’s opinion overrides all.
Try not to feel that you can use your fleeing units to lead enemy
cavalry into some sort of “trap”.
8.64 Off-Map Regroup. It is possible pursuing cavalry may end
up off-map. They may not re-enter the game until the player uses
his OC to declare that his entire Orders Phase is to Regroup and
Return the cavalry (regardless of range or location). A cavalry
Regroup and Return Order applies to all off-map cavalry from
that army. It allows the off-map cavalry to re-enter the map within
2 hexes of the hex by which it left, using as much of their MA
as they wish.
8.65 Cavalry units that are off-map because they pursued are
not considered when determining Rout Points. Leaders that are
off-map do not activate.
8.66 Cavalry Pursuit Option: Instead of using the TQ Rating
to check for pursuit (8.62), use the following Pursuit Ratings and
DRMs to determine if the cavalry unit pursues:
LC/LN: 5
RC/HC/BC: 3
DRMs:
+1 for Numidian LC.
+2 if any routed unit is infantry.
+/– Charisma Rating of any one leader involved.
–1 if the cavalry unit is in the ZOC of an enemy unit.

[pdf-31-context-right-before-9 | PDF 31 | context | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 309.4529]]
8.7 THE COMBAT TABLES
8.71 The Missile Range and Results Chart: This table is used
to determine the strength of a missile unit firing at a given range.
8.72 The Shock Superiority Chart: This chart is used to
compare the superiority (if any) of one type of unit compared
to another, depending on which side is attacking or defending.
Always read down the column—from the Attacker’s point of
view. (Reading across, by row, gives a “false” result.) Superiority
is used to augment Cohesion Hits.
8.73 Clash of Spears and Swords Chart: This chart is used
to determine which Column will be used on the Shock Combat
Results Table (subject to adjustments).
8.74 Shock Combat Results Table: This Table is used to resolve
Shock Combat in terms of Cohesion Hits to both attacker and
defender. See 10.11 and 10.14.
8.75 The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart: Use this as
a summary of when Cohesion Hits are applied and when TQ
checks take place.

[pdf-37-context-left-from-10 | PDF 37 | context | bbox=[45, 392.6396, 297, 744]]
10.0 THE EFFECTS OF COMBAT
Combat units incur cohesion Hits from excessive movement and/
or combat. Too many Cohesion Hits produce a rout. Routing units
run away and head for their Retreat Edge (see specific scenario
instructions). A routed unit can be rallied in certain circumstances.
10.1 COHESION
Cohesion is a measure of how organized and effective a unit is at
any point during the battle. The loss of cohesion is measured in
Cohesion Hits, which are applied against a unit’s Troop Quality
Rating (TQ), sometimes automatically, sometimes after a die
roll. The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart (8.75) summarizes
when these Hits occur.
10.11 TQ Checks: The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart gives
the times during the game when a unit must undergo a TQ check.
These instances have also been noted throughout the rules. A TQ
check consists of rolling the die and comparing it to the unit’s
printed TQ rating, and applying the result given on the chart—
usually one or more Cohesion Hits if the DR exceeds the rating.
Exception: Routed units use a TQ of 1 for all TQ checks instead
of the printed TQ.
10.12 Cohesion Markers: Each time that a unit in-
curs a Cohesion Hit, place a numeric marker, repre-
senting the total number of Hits taken, on (or under)
the unit counter. Cohesion Hits do not affect a unit’s
combat strength or capabilities in any way, other than to show
how close it is getting to falling apart. Thus, a unit with a TQ of

[pdf-37-context-right | PDF 37 | context | bbox=[315, 45, 567, 744]]
6 and 4 Cohesion Hits has the same combat effect as one with
no Cohesion Hits. It is just more likely to rout.
10.13 If there are multiple units involved in a single combat
resolution, Cohesion Hits must be divided as equally as possible
amongst these units (treat a stack as a single unit for this purpose),
with any extra Hits being given to the unit/stack:
• used to gain Superiority (either type), otherwise
• used to determine the Shock Column on the Clash of Spears
and Swords Chart.
Owning player’s choice if more than one unit/stack qualifies in
either category. Hits allocated to a stack are distributed per 6.68
bullet #6.
Exceptions:
• If a leader on a Leader Elephant is stacked with a combat unit,
that player does not have to apportion any Hits to the Leader
Elephant, unless the number of Hits exceeds the other combat
unit’s TQ. In that case, all excess Hits apply to the Leader
Elephant.
• If a Phalanx unit is attacking two or more non-Phalanx units,
the attacking player chooses how any Cohesion Hits will be
distributed amongst the defenders. Such distribution may be
uneven, if so desired. This does not apply when Phalanx units
are defending.
EXAMPLE: A Hastati stack and another Hastati unit receive 1
Hit from their attack. The Hit cannot be divided equally so it is
excess. There was no superiority and all units have the same Type
which was used to determine the Shock column on the Clash of
Spears and Swords chart. The attacking player gets to choose
whether to give the Hit to the stack or the lone Hastati. If he
chooses the stack, the top Hastati will incur the Hit.
10.14 When a unit has absorbed Cohesion Hits equal to or more
than its TQ rating, it routs (10.2).
10.15 If, during Shock resolution (8.43, 8.47), all attacking and
defending units would rout, the following occurs:
1. The attacker adds to his total Hits the number of Cohesion
Hits—if any—that he would incur were he to Advance after
Combat (8.5).
2. All units on the side with the unit that has the greatest discrep-
ancy between Hits and TQ rating rout (10.2). The units on the
other side do not rout. The Cohesion Hits on all units on the
side that did not rout are adjusted to the units’ TQ minus 1.
If the attacking side did not rout, the attacker Advances after
Combat (8.5). If the defending side did not rout, those units
remain in place.
3. If the difference between the Hits and TQ is the same for both
sides, the defender routs. The Cohesion Hits on all attacking
units are adjusted to the units’ TQ minus 1 and the attacker
Advances after Combat (8.5).
IMPORTANT: #1-#3 above only apply if all units involved
would rout.
