9.0 SPECIAL COMBAT UNITS
9.1 WAR ELEPHANTS
HISTORICAL NOTE: Despite their drawbacks, war elephants
were immensely popular from the era of the Diadochi (Alex-
ander’s successors) through the days of the Roman Republic
(even the Romans used them—cf. Cynoscephalae— although
not often). By the time of Pyrrhus, war elephants became
equipped with “towers” and their compatriot cavalry had
also become trained to work alongside them. Unfortunately,
the flexibility of the Roman legion system eventually negated
their advantages, leaving them with a host of disadvantages
which doomed them as relics.
9.11 Elephant Pass-Thru: An infantry unit being
attacked through one of its Front hexes by an Ele-
phant unit marked SHOCK MUST CHECK TQ, may
attempt to allow the Elephant unit to pass through its
hex. This decision must be made prior to the Pre-Shock TQ Check
die roll (8.43) and may be elected only if at least one of the de-
fender’s Rear hexes is unoccupied. Pass-Thru is not allowed if:
• an infantry unit is attacked through a Flank or Rear.
• an Elephant unit is attacking along with other units.
• the infantry unit was in an enemy ZOC at the start of the Orders
Phase.
Pass-Thru may be used by two defending infantry units if both
units meet the preceding conditions. If the player decides against
Pass-Thru, Shock proceeds normally.
If the player decides to allow the Pass-Thru, do the following:
1. Apply a +1 DRM to the infantry unit’s Pre-Shock TQ Check
DR.
2. Proceed with the Shock resolution procedure but halve (round
down) Cohesion Hits to the defending unit and reduce the
Cohesion Hits to the Elephant unit by 1.
Games, LLC

3. After the Shock Combat is resolved, if the infantry unit did
7–9 On the first Rampage DR, the Elephant heads
not rout and the Elephant unit has not rampaged (9.14), place
in the direction directly away from the unit that
the Elephant unit in either one of the defender’s unoccupied
caused the rampage. A 7-9 on any subsequent
Rear hexes (Elephant player’s choice), maintaining its facing.
die roll means the elephant’s mahout has been
4. The defending unit, other than a Skirmisher unit, now un- successful in stopping the rampage by driving a
dergoes a Pass-Thru TQ Check. Subtract the unit’s TQ from wedge into the beast’s brain; the Elephant unit is
the DR, with any excess being the number of Cohesion Hits eliminated. If it is a Leader Elephant, the unit is,
now applied (DR–TQ=Hits). instead, immediately rallied with Cohesion Hits
equal to its TQ minus 2.
DESIGN NOTE: Most infantry were trained to (attempt to)
avoid an elephant charge by allowing the elephants to pass
through their ranks. The maneuver did neutralize some of the Each Elephant Rampage is always resolved immediately, before
elephant’s power, but at some cost in cohesion to the rank- any other game mechanic is addressed, except for Orderly With-
splitting units. drawal in face of the rampaging elephant (6.51).
9.12 Elephant Screens: Elephants were quite vulnerable to
missile attacks, and, to protect against this, armies surrounded
each Elephant with its own light screen of skirmishers, usually
archers represented by the small “a” on the counter. The firepower
is much less than normal archer units, to account for the size of
the screen and its tactical use.
Elephant Screens can Missile Fire with Reaction Fire (8.2) only, EXAMPLE: The above diagram shows the elephant unit refaced
using the Elephant Screen row on the MRRC. Elephant Screens after a Rampage die roll of 1. This is just an example; use the
have their own missile supply markers. Leader elephants do not compass on the map for each battle.
have screens (they usually did, but they were too small to be a
A rampaging Elephant and any stacked leader with it always
factor).
attempt to move 3 hexes per directional die roll in the indicated
9.13 Tower Riders: The riders atop elephants were armed with direction until it either moves off the map or is otherwise elimi-
javelins and are treated as Mounted Javelinists for Missile Fire nated. If a rampaging Elephant unit would enter a hex occupied
purposes. The Elephant unit may use Reaction Fire with both its by a unit, whether enemy or friendly, the Elephant unit stops in
javelins and its screen, with the player rolling separately for each. the adjacent hex and the unit incurs 1 Cohesion Hit if the Elephant
would have entered through a Front hex or 2 Cohesion Hits if it
DESIGN NOTE: Several historians portray Hannibal’s
would have entered through a Flank or Rear hex. A cavalry unit
elephants without “towers.” Makes no difference, the rule
incurs 2 Cohesion Hits regardless of the angle.
remains the same.
If the affected units are a stack, both units receive the Cohesion
9.14 Elephant Rampage: When an Elephant unit routs, it Ram-
Hits. If there is a leader in the hex (alone or stacked with a unit),
pages. Leader Elephants also Rampage, but they have less of a
and he cannot withdraw (see 4.72), he is tragically impaled on
chance of doing so. Each time an Elephant unit routs, its player
the elephant’s tusks, tossed high in the air, and then crushed to
rolls the die and does one of the following, depending on the DR:
death under its feet. All that without a die roll!
Die Roll Result The player now rolls again, as above, repeating the process until:
0 The Elephant unit heads in the direction of the • The Elephant unit rampages off the map, or
nearest friendly unit, opposing player’s choice • The Elephant unit is eliminated (7-9 mahout DR), or
if there is more than one nearest unit. A Leader
• The Elephant unit is at least 8 hexes from the nearest unit, in
Elephant is eliminated.
which case it is eliminated, or
1–6 The Elephant unit heads in the direction indicated • If none of the above, after the 4th consecutive Rampage DR,
on the Compass on the map, an example of which the Elephant unit is eliminated.
is given below. Note that geographical direction
A leader stacked with a rampaging Elephant goes along with
is represented at the vertex; the direction in which
the Elephant on the Rampage. When the Rampage ends, the
the Elephant is to Rampage is by hexside.
player rolls for a leader casualty (4.73). If the leader survives,
he remains on the map where the Elephant ended the Rampage.
If the Elephant Rampages off the map, both the Elephant and
leader are eliminated.
Rampaging elephants have no ZOC, do not trigger Reaction
Fire of any kind, and they may not be rallied. Each Rampage is
© 2026 GMT Games, LLC

undertaken until its conclusion, so there may never be more than 9.2 SKIRMISHERS, VELITES, AND LIGHT
one rampaging Elephant unit at any one time. INFANTRY
DESIGN NOTE: Historically, the mahouts were trained to use DESIGN NOTE: Skirmisher units were truly ill-suited for
“the wedge” on any berserk elephants. With each counter rep- Shock Combat; they were, in fact, trained to avoid it. Skirmish-
resenting 5 elephants, the rule represents the 1 or 2 elephants ers rarely had any armor protection, and the only weapons
they could not dispatch immediately. they carried were their bows, slings, or javelins. They fought
dispersed in “open” formation, and their intent was to delay,
9.15 Cavalry vs. Elephants: Cavalry units may never voluntarily
harass and screen (although they were quite effective against
move into the ZOC of an enemy Elephant unit. They may move
elephants and chariots). Velites were the first line of a legionary
into or through an enemy Elephant’s Flank or Rear hexes but
deployment. Although more heavily armed than skirmishers,
at the cost of 2 Cohesion Hits for each such hex entered. This
their function and training were much the same. Their forma-
cohesion penalty also applies if the cavalry unit is forced to enter
tion, however, was not so “open”, and they are not treated as
an Elephant ZOC. Cavalry may never attack an enemy Elephant
skirmishers; they are Light Infantry, which also have some
through the latter’s Front hexes; they may attack through the
added maneuver capabilities.
Elephant unit’s Flank or Rear hexes, but they do not gain the
usual Attack Superiority for such an attack. 9.21 Orderly Withdrawal: Skirmishers may Orderly
Withdraw up to 2 hexes before any units whose MA
9.16 Elephants vs. Cavalry: If an Elephant unit moves adjacent
is the same or less (i.e., all infantry units), regardless
to an enemy cavalry unit from a non-adjacent hex, the cavalry
of the MA differential. The only time Skirmishers
must attempt Orderly Withdrawal. The cavalry unit cannot use
incur Cohesion Hits when using OW is after being approached
any form of Reaction Fire if it can withdraw. If the cavalry unit
from a Rear hex. The only time Velites incur Cohesion Hits from
cannot withdraw, it must undergo an immediate TQ check. If
OW is after being approached from a Flank or Rear hex.
the DR is higher than a unit’s TQ, it incurs Cohesion Hits equal
to the difference between the DR result and its TQ, with a mini- 9.22 Missile Fire: There is a +2 DRM to the Missile Fire DR
mum result of 1 Cohesion Hit. If the cavalry unit is routed, it is whenever a Skirmisher unit is the target. Skirmisher and Light
automatically eliminated, no DR necessary. This rule does not Infantry Archers (Class A) cannot use H&D fire. Light Cavalry
apply to Leader Elephants. (all missile classes) cannot use H&D against Skirmishers..
9.17 In any instance where Elephant units attack other Elephant 9.23 Shock Combat: Skirmishers have the following restrictions
units, neither side may gain Position Superiority. Thus, one when involved in Shock Combat:
Elephant attacking another Elephant through the latter’s Flank/
• Skirmishers cannot Shock attack.
Rear does not gain Attack Superiority.
• All units that Shock attack Skirmishers alone do not have
HISTORICAL NOTE: Elephants did not fight in formations. to make a Pre-Shock TQ even if they have SHOCK MUST
CHECK TQ markers.
9.18 Unless the rules specifically state otherwise, Elephant units • If a Skirmisher unit is defending in coordination with any other
may be commanded by any leader. unit type, the other Type must be chosen as the defender. The
Size rating of the Skirmisher is ignored.
9.19 Indians vs. Africans: In addition to the notes on the Clash of
Spears and Swords and Shock Superiority Charts, the following • Any Cohesion Hits inflicted by Skirmishers in Shock Combat
rule is in effect when Indian Elephants fight African Elephants: are halved (round down) with a maximum of 1 Cohesion Hit.
African Elephants incur a +1 DRM to their Pre-Shock die rolls • Phalanx (PH), Heavy Infantry (HI), and Legion Infantry (LG)
(8.43). units that are attacked from a Front hex by Light Infantry (LI)
do not undergo a Pre-Shock TQ check even if the attackers have
HISTORICAL NOTE: The argument over which family of
SHOCK MUST CHECK TQ markers, though the attacking LI
elephants was best—or even which type was available at any
still do. The reverse is not true; PH, HI and LG do undergo a
given battle—has been argued long and hard for many years.
Pre-Shock TQ check when attacking LI.
The two basic groups were the large Indian elephants and the
EXAMPLE: Thus, if a Light Infantry attacking a Skirmisher
smaller (and purportedly less warlike) “Forest” elephants
would produce an unadjusted result on the Shock Results Table
of northern Africa. The large elephants of southern Africa
of 1(4), the actual result would be 0(4).
were unknown at that time. For game purposes, the Indians
are slightly better vis-à-vis other unit types (they are bigger, 9.24 Other situations:
making it tougher to reach the riders, and they took to warfare
• Skirmishers that Rout are eliminated instead.
somewhat better than their African cousins). In terms of who
• Skirmishers do not make an Elephant Pass-Thru Check (9.11).
was better in a head-to-head confrontation (which is an ac-
• See 6.69 for special stacking rules for Skirmishers and Velites.
curate description as to how elephants fought), our sole “an-
Skirmishers can change facing at no MP cost and can move
cient” source of information is the battle of Raphia (217 B.C.),
more than once per Game Turn without a Cohesion cost.
in which Antiochus’ Indians completely blew away Ptolemy’s
Africans (although Antiochus lost the battle). • When determining lines for a Line Command (4.32), the pres-
ence of a Velites or Skirmisher unit does not disrupt the line if
© 2026 GMT Games, LLC

the interruption is caused by only one such unit. 9.5 DOUBLE DEPTH PHALANXES
EXAMPLE: There are Hastati in 2808, Velites in 2809, and Has- DESIGN NOTE: To increase the crushing pressure of the Pha-
tati in 2810. This would still be eligible to be a line. However, lanxes, post-Alexandrian commanders using the Macedonian
if there were Velites in 2809 and 2810 and the Hastati in 2808 system often implemented a formation which doubled their
and 2811, the two Hastati would not form a line. If there were depth. Eligible units are listed in the scenario-specific rules.
Hastati in 2808, 2810, and 2812, with Velites in 2809 and 2811,
9.51 Phalanxes may use Double-Depth (DD) formation, which al-
the Hastati could form a line.
lows them to stack two to a hex. Forming Double-Depth requires
9.3 LIGHT CAVALRY an Individual Order or Line Command, directly from the OC. To
form Double-Depth, the stacking, “back” Phalanx must start its
9.31 Missile-armed Light Cavalry may use H&D fire (8.3) against
movement in the hex directly behind the “front” Phalanx. The
all units with a lower MA, except Skirmishers. Light Cavalry
“back” Phalanx then moves into the front Phalanx’s hex, paying
Archers can fire when they use Orderly Withdrawal (6.55).
normal terrain costs, and expends 1 MP in addition to the terrain
9.32 Any Cohesion Hits inflicted by attacking Light Cavalry cost to stack. The “back” Phalanx is then placed underneath the
against a Phalanx or a Heavy, Medium, Legion, or Barbarian “front” Phalanx. This completes the movement for both units
Infantry unit are halved (round down). for that Orders Phase.
EXAMPLE: A Light Cavalry unit with Attack Superiority (AS) 9.52 Movement Restrictions: Double Depth formation has the
against a Heavy Infantry unit would use the printed result on following effects:
the Shock CRT.
• The units may receive orders only from the OC.
9.4 PHALANX DEFENSE • They may move as one unit, but it takes 2 Individual Orders
(when using Individual Orders) to move both units together.
9.41 In any Shock Resolution in which a unit moves adjacent to
They may use Pre-Arranged Withdrawal (6.8).
and Shock attacks a Phalanx from the defender’s Front hex, the
• The units may not Wheel (6.44), Reverse (6.45), or use Col-
Phalanx earns a 2L shift on the Shock Combat CRT for each of
umn (6.7). Unstacking requires an Individual Order or Line
its Flank hexes either occupied by another friendly Phalanx unit
Command as above, at which time the top unit moves off at
or in the ZOC of a friendly Phalanx unit. If the attacker is Heavy
normal costs. The bottom unit must remain in place.
Infantry (any Class), the shift is 1L instead. This applies only to
moving attacks, not to attacks in which the attacking unit started • The units always use their 4 MA; they never use their 5 MA
adjacent to the Phalanx unit and stayed in that hex to Shock. It for anything. For any movement that would incur a Cohesion
also does not apply to Flank/Rear attacks, or if any attacker is Hit, both units incur the Hit.
also a Phalanx unit. • No unit, of any type, may ever move through or into a Double
Depth stack. Treat them as impassable terrain.
EXAMPLE: If 2 LGs attack a PH frontally that has other PH
units in each Flank hex, the Shock attack is resolved, assuming 9.53 Combat Effects: Double Depth formation has the follow-
no other adjustments, on the 1 column (they start in 5 and get ing effects on combat:
shuffled 4L to 1). This means that, on average per Shock, the PH • The Sizes of both units are combined.
will take 1, maybe 2 Hits; but each LG will take 2 or 3. • Only the top unit is used for TQ checks (unless attacked from
the rear, in which case it’s the bottom unit). However, if that
DESIGN NOTE: This reflects the remarkable defensive
unit incurs any Cohesion Hits, then the other unit checks.
capabilities that this wall of sarissa had, especially against
the initial charge by the enemy. Once inside the sarissa, the • Units defending against a Shock attack by units in Double
attackers stood a better chance of cracking the Phalanx. The Depth incur a +1 DRM to their Pre-Shock TQ check die rolls.
reduced effect for Heavy Infantry reflects the fact that they • Defending units at Double Depth earn a –1 DRM to their Pre-
were spear-armed too. Shock TQ check die rolls. Phalanx Defense (9.41) also applies.
• If a Double Depth stack is Shock attacked from a Flank or
Rear hex, the defender Cohesion Hits are tripled (3x) instead
of doubled.
• Cohesion Hits from Shock are distributed equally between the
two units, with any odd Hits going to the top unit. Cohesion Hits
from Missile Fire Hits apply only to the top unit unless fire is
through a Rear hex, in which case Hits apply to the bottom unit.
• If either unit in the stack routs, they both rout. The units must
retreat to separate hexes. If this is not possible, the unit is
eliminated instead.
EXAMPLE: See the scenario rules for Cynoscephalae.
© 2026 GMT Games, LLC

9.6 THE ROMAN MANIPULAR LEGION may move sideways into the vacant flank hexes (see the diagram
above). If a Flank hex is occupied, MLE cannot be used to place
HISTORICAL NOTE: The major advance in the science of mili-
a unit in that hex. The hex entered by MLE must be Clear and
tary tactics in this era was the “manipular” legion, as devel-
not in an enemy ZOC. Facing remains the same. This rule only
oped by Rome starting somewhere in the late 3rd century B.C.
applies to unstacking the units; it does not apply to stacking
It allowed the Roman strengths—training and discipline—to be
them together.
translated into a tactical flexibility that often proved superior,
even when her generals were not. Therefore, Roman armies 9.67 Manipular Line Extension may be undertaken as a reaction
have certain advantages, most of which have been discussed to enemy movement the instant an enemy combat unit comes
above and are summarized in this section. within 2 hexes of a line of stacked Roman units. The Roman
player may make his choice at any time any enemy unit so places
9.61 See the Stacking Charts for a summary of the legionary itself (that is, he does not have to exercise his MLE rights the first
stacking advantages. For Romans, the rule of thumb is that two time they become available). If enemy movement triggers both
Roman infantry units of the same border color can stack without Orderly Withdrawal as well as MLE, both may be undertaken
penalty. There are exceptions, such as Velites. A Roman stack together but not by the same units.
may move together when necessary or desired. It takes two In-
EXAMPLE: A Velites unit sitting between two Hastati stacks may
dividual Orders to move two stacked units (only one, if stacked
withdraw through the gaps in a Hastati line upon approach of,
with the OC, and he is giving the orders), but only one LC, if they
say, an enemy Phalanx and, as soon as that unit is through the
are both eligible. Roman infantry units are also allowed spaces
gap, the Hastati line may undergo MLE.
between them when determining lines; see 4.32.
9.68 Manipular Line Extension may also be undertaken as part
9.62 Stacked Roman units combine their Size when attacking or
of a Line Command (only). If undertaken as an LC, both units
defending, but all other ratings, especially TQ, are those of the
may move after the MLE but with their MA reduced by 2. There
top unit. Stacked Romans must Shock attack the same hex; see
are no Cohesion Hits applied for the MLE. Units in Column may
8.42. Only the top unit may fire. Each unit makes its own TQ
not use MLE.
check but uses the TQ of the top unit. Automatic Cohesion Hits
(6.68) are applied to each unit in the stack. Cohesion Hits from
9.7 ROMAN TRIARII TACTICAL DOCTRINE
Shock resolution 8.46 Step 4 are allocated per 10.13.
This rule must be used with any battle involving Romans that took
9.63 For stacked Roman units with different border colors, or of place prior to 200 BCE in which Scipio Africanus is not pres-
the same border color and different classes, there is a +1 DRM ent as Overall Commander (and, yes, even though, historically,
to all TQ checks. Scipio was at Cannae, for game purposes he wasn’t, so use it at
9.64 Roman Stacking order may be changed/switched only by Cannae). It represents the way Romans used their Triarii, and,
an Individual Order; it may not be part of movement or a Line for Rome, doctrine was the equivalent of unassailable dogma.
Command, although facing may be changed by LC. If the player 9.71 Triarii units cannot move, but may change facing, until and
desires to move only one unit from a stack, only the top unit unless one of the following occurs:
may move.
• There is an enemy combat unit, other than an Elephant unit,
9.65 Roman infantry pay 1 MP cost for changing facing, but, which is within 3 hexes and LOS of any unit in the Triarii line,
unlike most other units, they may change any number of vertices. or
• The Triarii units are at least 6 hexes from all other Roman or
Ala—but not allied–infantry lines, be they Hastati, Principes
or whatever.
9.72 Triarii units cannot move and Shock attack unless and until
the Roman army has Rout Points equal to at least one-half of
Original Deployment its Army Withdrawal Level (round down). They may always,
however, Shock attack (without moving) against enemy units
in their ZOC.
After Manipular Line Extension
9.66 Manipular Line Extension: Stacked Roman units with
unoccupied flank hexes can extend their line as part of a Line
Command or in reaction to enemy movement, instead of using
Orderly Withdrawal. To undertake Manipular Line Extension
(MLE), all the top units in the stacks in the same Line (see 4.32)
© 2026 GMT Games, LLC

9.8 ARTILLERY cannot use Column Movement (6.7), Pre-Arranged Withdrawal
(6.8), or Orderly Withdrawal (6.5).
9.81 Scorpios are Bolt-firing (B) engines with built-
in crews. The Scorpios have a TQ rating, and they
9.93 Rout and Recovery
are treated as Light Infantry (LI) for movement and
BI units can only remove 1 Cohesion Hit per Recovery order.
when defending in Shock Combat or against Missile
Depleted BI units do not Rout but are instead eliminated.
Fire. Scorpio units are not Shock-capable and their only offensive
combat capability is to Missile Fire. 9.94 Barbarian Ferocity
9.82 A Scorpio is in either Fire or Move mode. It requires an DESIGN NOTE: This rule represents the feared, initial charge
Individual Order from any friendly leader to change its mode. of tribal-style warfare, into which the locals seemed to inject
Scorpios in Move mode cannot fire, and conversely, cannot all their pent-up anger, determination and initial enthusiasm.
move in Fire mode. A Scorpio that has had its mode changed to Tribal tactics were simple: a big rush designed to swiftly break
Move cannot move in that Orders Phase, nor can a Scorpio that the back of their opponent. It was usually quite effective, except
has had its mode switched to Fire, fire in that Orders Phase. A against a disciplined, professional army.
Scorpio unit in Move mode requires an Individual Order from
All BI units start the game with Ferocity. A BI unit with Ferocity
any friendly leader to move. Scorpio units do not need orders to
earns a –1 DRM to its Pre-Shock TQ die roll while penalizing
fire (see 9.85 below).
the defending unit(s) with a +2 DRM to their Pre-Shock TQ die
PLAY NOTE: The front side of the counter shows the unit in roll(s).
Fire mode; the reverse side in Move mode.
Ferocity continues until the BI’s leader (as given in the scenario
9.83 Only one Scorpio unit may occupy any one hex. All other setup) fails a Ferocity check, which the player conducts each
stacking rules apply. time a BI unit Routs. The player rolls the die and compares it to
the leader’s Initiative Rating. If the DR is the same or lower, BI
9.84 Scorpio units have no facing; they may move or fire in any
units retain their Ferocity, otherwise Ferocity is permanently lost
direction, regardless of the direction the actual counter is pointed.
for BI under the command of that leader. The loss of Ferocity for
All hexes are considered Front hexes.
the units under one leader has no effect on the Ferocity of units
9.85 Active Fire: Scorpios may fire of- under the command of different leaders.
fensively twice per Game Turn (not Orders
9.95 Barbarian Impetuosity
Phase) during any friendly Orders Phase.
At the start of a battle, the Gauls usually worked themselves into
They do not need an order to fire and can
a fever pitch, which translated into an all-out charge. To reflect
fire at any time during the active player’s Movement and Missile
this, at the start of a game, all BI units have their MA increased
Fire Segment, no more than one shot per Orders Phase. The first
by 1. Leaders that command BI units receive a –1 DRM to all
time a Scorpio unit fires, place an ACTIVE FIRE ONCE mark-
first-try Momentum die rolls. Impetuosity lasts until at least two
er on it. The second time it fires, flip the marker to its ACTIVE
BI units of a leader’s command enter an enemy ZOC, at which
FIRE FINISHED side. A Scorpio that fires cannot do anything
point Impetuosity continues for the rest of the Game Turn, after
else that Orders Phase (such as recover Hits).
which it is lost. Only the BI units in that command (per the sce-
9.86 Reaction Fire: Scorpios may fire twice per enemy Orders nario setup) are affected.
Phase at any time during the enemy Movement and Missile Seg-
9.96 Gallic Chariots
ment—and we mean “any”; they may fire even during enemy
movement! The first time the Scorpio unit fires, place DESIGN NOTE: The chariots used by the Gallic tribes were
a REACTION FIRE ONCE marker on it. The second not, in any way, weapons systems. They were used only for
time it fires, flip the marker to its REACTION FIRE transport. Their only resemblance to the war chariots of “days
FINISHED side. Scorpios, however, cannot use any gone by” was that they had wheels. Thus, ignore the reference
type of ordinary Reaction Fire (8.2). to Chariots on the Combat Tables. However, the tribes were
quite adept at using them to whatever advantage they did of-
9.87 Scorpios incur and recover Cohesion Hits as any other unit.
fer. In this module, chariots make an appearance at Sentinum
A Scorpio that routs is immediately eliminated.
and Telamon.
9.9 THE BARBARIANS
Gallic Chariot (CH) units have only a Movement Allowance;
DESIGN NOTE: These rules reflect the capabilities and li- they have no Size and no TQ Rating. These units cannot move
abilities of the Celtic tribes that fought the Romans for control at all, and this includes Orderly Withdrawal, unless stacked with
of northern Italy during the period covered by SPQR. an eligible Light Infantry (LI) unit. If an enemy combat unit (of
any type) moves adjacent to a CH unit alone in a hex, the CH
9.91 Movement Effects unit is immediately eliminated.
Barbarian Infantry (BI) units do not incur Cohesion Hits for
Each CH unit may carry one Light Infantry (LI) unit. To denote
crossing or entering any type of passable terrain, nor do they
that a LI unit is mounted on the CH unit, place the CH on top of
incur Cohesion Hits for changing facing in Rough terrain. BI units
the LI unit. The combined CH and LI unit is treated as a single
© 2026 GMT Games, LLC