8.7 THE COMBAT TABLES
8.71 The Missile Range and Results Chart: This table is used
to determine the strength of a missile unit firing at a given range.
8.72 The Shock Superiority Chart: This chart is used to
compare the superiority (if any) of one type of unit compared
to another, depending on which side is attacking or defending.
Always read down the column—from the Attacker’s point of
view. (Reading across, by row, gives a “false” result.) Superiority
is used to augment Cohesion Hits.
8.73 Clash of Spears and Swords Chart: This chart is used
to determine which Column will be used on the Shock Combat
Results Table (subject to adjustments).
8.74 Shock Combat Results Table: This Table is used to resolve
Shock Combat in terms of Cohesion Hits to both attacker and
defender. See 10.11 and 10.14.
8.75 The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart: Use this as
a summary of when Cohesion Hits are applied and when TQ
checks take place.
9.0 SPECIAL COMBAT UNITS
9.1 WAR ELEPHANTS
HISTORICAL NOTE: Despite their drawbacks, war elephants
were immensely popular from the era of the Diadochi (Alex-
ander’s successors) through the days of the Roman Republic
(even the Romans used them—cf. Cynoscephalae— although
not often). By the time of Pyrrhus, war elephants became
equipped with “towers” and their compatriot cavalry had
also become trained to work alongside them. Unfortunately,
the flexibility of the Roman legion system eventually negated
their advantages, leaving them with a host of disadvantages
which doomed them as relics.
9.11 Elephant Pass-Thru: An infantry unit being
attacked through one of its Front hexes by an Ele-
phant unit marked SHOCK MUST CHECK TQ, may
attempt to allow the Elephant unit to pass through its
hex. This decision must be made prior to the Pre-Shock TQ Check
die roll (8.43) and may be elected only if at least one of the de-
fender’s Rear hexes is unoccupied. Pass-Thru is not allowed if:
• an infantry unit is attacked through a Flank or Rear.
• an Elephant unit is attacking along with other units.
• the infantry unit was in an enemy ZOC at the start of the Orders
Phase.
Pass-Thru may be used by two defending infantry units if both
units meet the preceding conditions. If the player decides against
Pass-Thru, Shock proceeds normally.
If the player decides to allow the Pass-Thru, do the following:
1. Apply a +1 DRM to the infantry unit’s Pre-Shock TQ Check
DR.
2. Proceed with the Shock resolution procedure but halve (round
down) Cohesion Hits to the defending unit and reduce the
Cohesion Hits to the Elephant unit by 1.