9.6 THE ROMAN MANIPULAR LEGION
HISTORICAL NOTE: The major advance in the science of mili-
tary tactics in this era was the “manipular” legion, as devel-
oped by Rome starting somewhere in the late 3rd century B.C.
It allowed the Roman strengths—training and discipline—to be
translated into a tactical flexibility that often proved superior,
even when her generals were not. Therefore, Roman armies
have certain advantages, most of which have been discussed
above and are summarized in this section.
9.61 See the Stacking Charts for a summary of the legionary
stacking advantages. For Romans, the rule of thumb is that two
Roman infantry units of the same border color can stack without
penalty. There are exceptions, such as Velites. A Roman stack
may move together when necessary or desired. It takes two In-
dividual Orders to move two stacked units (only one, if stacked
with the OC, and he is giving the orders), but only one LC, if they
are both eligible. Roman infantry units are also allowed spaces
between them when determining lines; see 4.32.
9.62 Stacked Roman units combine their Size when attacking or
defending, but all other ratings, especially TQ, are those of the
top unit. Stacked Romans must Shock attack the same hex; see
8.42. Only the top unit may fire. Each unit makes its own TQ
check but uses the TQ of the top unit. Automatic Cohesion Hits
(6.68) are applied to each unit in the stack. Cohesion Hits from
Shock resolution 8.46 Step 4 are allocated per 10.13.
9.63 For stacked Roman units with different border colors, or of
the same border color and different classes, there is a +1 DRM
to all TQ checks.
9.64 Roman Stacking order may be changed/switched only by
an Individual Order; it may not be part of movement or a Line
Command, although facing may be changed by LC. If the player
desires to move only one unit from a stack, only the top unit
may move.
9.65 Roman infantry pay 1 MP cost for changing facing, but,
unlike most other units, they may change any number of vertices.
Original Deployment
After Manipular Line Extension
9.66 Manipular Line Extension: Stacked Roman units with
unoccupied flank hexes can extend their line as part of a Line
Command or in reaction to enemy movement, instead of using
Orderly Withdrawal. To undertake Manipular Line Extension
(MLE), all the top units in the stacks in the same Line (see 4.32)