9.5 DOUBLE DEPTH PHALANXES
DESIGN NOTE: To increase the crushing pressure of the Pha-
lanxes, post-Alexandrian commanders using the Macedonian
system often implemented a formation which doubled their
depth. Eligible units are listed in the scenario-specific rules.
9.51 Phalanxes may use Double-Depth (DD) formation, which al-
lows them to stack two to a hex. Forming Double-Depth requires
an Individual Order or Line Command, directly from the OC. To
form Double-Depth, the stacking, “back” Phalanx must start its
movement in the hex directly behind the “front” Phalanx. The
“back” Phalanx then moves into the front Phalanx’s hex, paying
normal terrain costs, and expends 1 MP in addition to the terrain
cost to stack. The “back” Phalanx is then placed underneath the
“front” Phalanx. This completes the movement for both units
for that Orders Phase.
9.52 Movement Restrictions: Double Depth formation has the
following effects:
• The units may receive orders only from the OC.
• They may move as one unit, but it takes 2 Individual Orders
(when using Individual Orders) to move both units together.
They may use Pre-Arranged Withdrawal (6.8).
• The units may not Wheel (6.44), Reverse (6.45), or use Col-
umn (6.7). Unstacking requires an Individual Order or Line
Command as above, at which time the top unit moves off at
normal costs. The bottom unit must remain in place.
• The units always use their 4 MA; they never use their 5 MA
for anything. For any movement that would incur a Cohesion
Hit, both units incur the Hit.
• No unit, of any type, may ever move through or into a Double
Depth stack. Treat them as impassable terrain.
9.53 Combat Effects: Double Depth formation has the follow-
ing effects on combat:
• The Sizes of both units are combined.
• Only the top unit is used for TQ checks (unless attacked from
the rear, in which case it’s the bottom unit). However, if that
unit incurs any Cohesion Hits, then the other unit checks.
• Units defending against a Shock attack by units in Double
Depth incur a +1 DRM to their Pre-Shock TQ check die rolls.
• Defending units at Double Depth earn a –1 DRM to their Pre-
Shock TQ check die rolls. Phalanx Defense (9.41) also applies.
• If a Double Depth stack is Shock attacked from a Flank or
Rear hex, the defender Cohesion Hits are tripled (3x) instead
of doubled.
• Cohesion Hits from Shock are distributed equally between the
two units, with any odd Hits going to the top unit. Cohesion Hits
from Missile Fire Hits apply only to the top unit unless fire is
through a Rear hex, in which case Hits apply to the bottom unit.
• If either unit in the stack routs, they both rout. The units must
retreat to separate hexes. If this is not possible, the unit is
eliminated instead.
EXAMPLE: See the scenario rules for Cynoscephalae.