unit for stacking purposes. All other stacking restrictions apply
to both a CH+LI stack and a CH alone in the hex. There is no MP
or Cohesion Hit cost to the LI unit to either mount or dismount
from a CH. However, a dismounting LI unit may continue to
move only if the LI+CH combination moved less than the LI’s
printed Movement Allowance. The number of MP allowed is
equal to the difference. Conversely, an LI unit mounting a CH
can continue to move (as a mounted CH) up to the MA of the
CH unit less the number of MP already used by the LI prior to
mounting the CH. While stacked with an LI, the CH expends
MP to enter/cross terrain or is prohibited from entering/crossing
terrain per the Movement Cost Chart. However, Cohesion Hits
for movement are applied to the LI only; CH units do not suffer
Hits for Movement/Terrain.
LI mounted on CH units have the following special abilities/
liabilities:
• LI do not suffer any Cohesion Hits for moving a second (and
third) time in a Game Turn, if they spend the entire Orders
Phase mounted on the CH unit.
• LI cannot Shock attack; they must dismount to do so. When
mounted, they defend as LI.
• LI may use Missile Fire using the Mounted Javelin row on the
MRRC. Missile Supply (8.17) does not apply while the LI unit
is mounted. Remove any MiSSile low/No markers from the LI
unit when the unit mounts a CH. They may use Harassment
and Dispersal fire as if they were cavalry units.
10.0 THE EFFECTS OF COMBAT
Combat units incur cohesion Hits from excessive movement and/
or combat. Too many Cohesion Hits produce a rout. Routing units
run away and head for their Retreat Edge (see specific scenario
instructions). A routed unit can be rallied in certain circumstances.
10.1 COHESION
Cohesion is a measure of how organized and effective a unit is at
any point during the battle. The loss of cohesion is measured in
Cohesion Hits, which are applied against a unit’s Troop Quality
Rating (TQ), sometimes automatically, sometimes after a die
roll. The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart (8.75) summarizes
when these Hits occur.
10.11 TQ Checks: The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart gives
the times during the game when a unit must undergo a TQ check.
These instances have also been noted throughout the rules. A TQ
check consists of rolling the die and comparing it to the unit’s
printed TQ rating, and applying the result given on the chart—
usually one or more Cohesion Hits if the DR exceeds the rating.
Exception: Routed units use a TQ of 1 for all TQ checks instead
of the printed TQ.
10.12 Cohesion Markers: Each time that a unit in-
curs a Cohesion Hit, place a numeric marker, repre-
senting the total number of Hits taken, on (or under)
the unit counter. Cohesion Hits do not affect a unit’s
combat strength or capabilities in any way, other than to show
how close it is getting to falling apart. Thus, a unit with a TQ of