the pursuing unit is required to advance, it does not check again
for Cavalry Pursuit. The cavalry unit advances per 8.5 unless all
defenders were Routed at the start of the combat and eliminated,
in which case the cavalry unit instead moves ½ of its MA (round
up) or full MA in the same manner as bullet #1, above.
PLAY NOTE: This will usually place the victorious cavalry
unit out of range of its leader, and the player must then decide
what the best course is for this situation.
If the routed enemy unit moves off the map, the pursuing cavalry
unit and any stacked leaders are placed off map. The exit hex for
purposes of 8.64 is the hex where the routed unit left the map.
• Break-Off: The cavalry unit Advances after Combat (8.5).
8.63 Cavalry units that either Break-Off or Pursue
are Finished for the Game Turn; they may not be
ordered to move or fire but may recover Hits. They
cannot Shock attack but may react (6.5, 8.2, etc.) and
defend normally. Mark these units with a PURSUIT/FINISHED
marker after resolving the Break-Off/Pursuit.
EXAMPLE: [Zama] A Hastati unit in hex 2728 is charged by
Carthaginian HC (TQ=7) and routed. The Hastati retreats to
2527 and in checking for pursuit, the Carthaginian rolls a 8, and
he is off in hot pursuit. The cavalry moves into hex 2628 and it at-
tacks again, routing the fleeing Hastati unit, eliminating it. It then
advances 4 MP in the direction the fleeing Hastati was headed.
PLAY NOTE: The routing player, where possible and reason-
able, should have his fleeing units avoid contact with his own
units. The key word is, of course, “reasonable” ... and, in cases
of bitter dispute, the pursuing player’s opinion overrides all.
Try not to feel that you can use your fleeing units to lead enemy
cavalry into some sort of “trap”.
8.64 Off-Map Regroup. It is possible pursuing cavalry may end
up off-map. They may not re-enter the game until the player uses
his OC to declare that his entire Orders Phase is to Regroup and
Return the cavalry (regardless of range or location). A cavalry
Regroup and Return Order applies to all off-map cavalry from
that army. It allows the off-map cavalry to re-enter the map within
2 hexes of the hex by which it left, using as much of their MA
as they wish.
8.65 Cavalry units that are off-map because they pursued are
not considered when determining Rout Points. Leaders that are
off-map do not activate.
8.66 Cavalry Pursuit Option: Instead of using the TQ Rating
to check for pursuit (8.62), use the following Pursuit Ratings and
DRMs to determine if the cavalry unit pursues:
LC/LN: 5
RC/HC/BC: 3
DRMs:
+1 for Numidian LC.
+2 if any routed unit is infantry.
+/– Charisma Rating of any one leader involved.
–1 if the cavalry unit is in the ZOC of an enemy unit.