undertaken until its conclusion, so there may never be more than
one rampaging Elephant unit at any one time.
DESIGN NOTE: Historically, the mahouts were trained to use
“the wedge” on any berserk elephants. With each counter rep-
resenting 5 elephants, the rule represents the 1 or 2 elephants
they could not dispatch immediately.
9.15 Cavalry vs. Elephants: Cavalry units may never voluntarily
move into the ZOC of an enemy Elephant unit. They may move
into or through an enemy Elephant’s Flank or Rear hexes but
at the cost of 2 Cohesion Hits for each such hex entered. This
cohesion penalty also applies if the cavalry unit is forced to enter
an Elephant ZOC. Cavalry may never attack an enemy Elephant
through the latter’s Front hexes; they may attack through the
Elephant unit’s Flank or Rear hexes, but they do not gain the
usual Attack Superiority for such an attack.
9.16 Elephants vs. Cavalry: If an Elephant unit moves adjacent
to an enemy cavalry unit from a non-adjacent hex, the cavalry
must attempt Orderly Withdrawal. The cavalry unit cannot use
any form of Reaction Fire if it can withdraw. If the cavalry unit
cannot withdraw, it must undergo an immediate TQ check. If
the DR is higher than a unit’s TQ, it incurs Cohesion Hits equal
to the difference between the DR result and its TQ, with a mini-
mum result of 1 Cohesion Hit. If the cavalry unit is routed, it is
automatically eliminated, no DR necessary. This rule does not
apply to Leader Elephants.
9.17 In any instance where Elephant units attack other Elephant
units, neither side may gain Position Superiority. Thus, one
Elephant attacking another Elephant through the latter’s Flank/
Rear does not gain Attack Superiority.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Elephants did not fight in formations.
9.18 Unless the rules specifically state otherwise, Elephant units
may be commanded by any leader.
9.19 Indians vs. Africans: In addition to the notes on the Clash of
Spears and Swords and Shock Superiority Charts, the following
rule is in effect when Indian Elephants fight African Elephants:
African Elephants incur a +1 DRM to their Pre-Shock die rolls
(8.43).
HISTORICAL NOTE: The argument over which family of
elephants was best—or even which type was available at any
given battle—has been argued long and hard for many years.
The two basic groups were the large Indian elephants and the
smaller (and purportedly less warlike) “Forest” elephants
of northern Africa. The large elephants of southern Africa
were unknown at that time. For game purposes, the Indians
are slightly better vis-à-vis other unit types (they are bigger,
making it tougher to reach the riders, and they took to warfare
somewhat better than their African cousins). In terms of who
was better in a head-to-head confrontation (which is an ac-
curate description as to how elephants fought), our sole “an-
cient” source of information is the battle of Raphia (217 B.C.),
in which Antiochus’ Indians completely blew away Ptolemy’s
Africans (although Antiochus lost the battle).