3. After the Shock Combat is resolved, if the infantry unit did
not rout and the Elephant unit has not rampaged (9.14), place
the Elephant unit in either one of the defender’s unoccupied
Rear hexes (Elephant player’s choice), maintaining its facing.
4. The defending unit, other than a Skirmisher unit, now un-
dergoes a Pass-Thru TQ Check. Subtract the unit’s TQ from
the DR, with any excess being the number of Cohesion Hits
now applied (DR–TQ=Hits).
DESIGN NOTE: Most infantry were trained to (attempt to)
avoid an elephant charge by allowing the elephants to pass
through their ranks. The maneuver did neutralize some of the
elephant’s power, but at some cost in cohesion to the rank-
splitting units.
9.12 Elephant Screens: Elephants were quite vulnerable to
missile attacks, and, to protect against this, armies surrounded
each Elephant with its own light screen of skirmishers, usually
archers represented by the small “a” on the counter. The firepower
is much less than normal archer units, to account for the size of
the screen and its tactical use.
Elephant Screens can Missile Fire with Reaction Fire (8.2) only,
using the Elephant Screen row on the MRRC. Elephant Screens
have their own missile supply markers. Leader elephants do not
have screens (they usually did, but they were too small to be a
factor).
9.13 Tower Riders: The riders atop elephants were armed with
javelins and are treated as Mounted Javelinists for Missile Fire
purposes. The Elephant unit may use Reaction Fire with both its
javelins and its screen, with the player rolling separately for each.
DESIGN NOTE: Several historians portray Hannibal’s
elephants without “towers.” Makes no difference, the rule
remains the same.
9.14 Elephant Rampage: When an Elephant unit routs, it Ram-
pages. Leader Elephants also Rampage, but they have less of a
chance of doing so. Each time an Elephant unit routs, its player
rolls the die and does one of the following, depending on the DR:
Die Roll Result
0 The Elephant unit heads in the direction of the
nearest friendly unit, opposing player’s choice
if there is more than one nearest unit. A Leader
Elephant is eliminated.
1–6 The Elephant unit heads in the direction indicated
on the Compass on the map, an example of which
is given below. Note that geographical direction
is represented at the vertex; the direction in which
the Elephant is to Rampage is by hexside.