7–9 On the first Rampage DR, the Elephant heads
in the direction directly away from the unit that
caused the rampage. A 7-9 on any subsequent
die roll means the elephant’s mahout has been
successful in stopping the rampage by driving a
wedge into the beast’s brain; the Elephant unit is
eliminated. If it is a Leader Elephant, the unit is,
instead, immediately rallied with Cohesion Hits
equal to its TQ minus 2.
Each Elephant Rampage is always resolved immediately, before
any other game mechanic is addressed, except for Orderly With-
drawal in face of the rampaging elephant (6.51).
EXAMPLE: The above diagram shows the elephant unit refaced
after a Rampage die roll of 1. This is just an example; use the
compass on the map for each battle.
A rampaging Elephant and any stacked leader with it always
attempt to move 3 hexes per directional die roll in the indicated
direction until it either moves off the map or is otherwise elimi-
nated. If a rampaging Elephant unit would enter a hex occupied
by a unit, whether enemy or friendly, the Elephant unit stops in
the adjacent hex and the unit incurs 1 Cohesion Hit if the Elephant
would have entered through a Front hex or 2 Cohesion Hits if it
would have entered through a Flank or Rear hex. A cavalry unit
incurs 2 Cohesion Hits regardless of the angle.
If the affected units are a stack, both units receive the Cohesion
Hits. If there is a leader in the hex (alone or stacked with a unit),
and he cannot withdraw (see 4.72), he is tragically impaled on
the elephant’s tusks, tossed high in the air, and then crushed to
death under its feet. All that without a die roll!
The player now rolls again, as above, repeating the process until:
• The Elephant unit rampages off the map, or
• The Elephant unit is eliminated (7-9 mahout DR), or
• The Elephant unit is at least 8 hexes from the nearest unit, in
which case it is eliminated, or
• If none of the above, after the 4th consecutive Rampage DR,
the Elephant unit is eliminated.
A leader stacked with a rampaging Elephant goes along with
the Elephant on the Rampage. When the Rampage ends, the
player rolls for a leader casualty (4.73). If the leader survives,
he remains on the map where the Elephant ended the Rampage.
If the Elephant Rampages off the map, both the Elephant and
leader are eliminated.
Rampaging elephants have no ZOC, do not trigger Reaction
Fire of any kind, and they may not be rallied. Each Rampage is