6 and 4 Cohesion Hits has the same combat effect as one with
no Cohesion Hits. It is just more likely to rout.
10.13 If there are multiple units involved in a single combat
resolution, Cohesion Hits must be divided as equally as possible
amongst these units (treat a stack as a single unit for this purpose),
with any extra Hits being given to the unit/stack:
• used to gain Superiority (either type), otherwise
• used to determine the Shock Column on the Clash of Spears
and Swords Chart.
Owning player’s choice if more than one unit/stack qualifies in
either category. Hits allocated to a stack are distributed per 6.68
bullet #6.
Exceptions:
• If a leader on a Leader Elephant is stacked with a combat unit,
that player does not have to apportion any Hits to the Leader
Elephant, unless the number of Hits exceeds the other combat
unit’s TQ. In that case, all excess Hits apply to the Leader
Elephant.
• If a Phalanx unit is attacking two or more non-Phalanx units,
the attacking player chooses how any Cohesion Hits will be
distributed amongst the defenders. Such distribution may be
uneven, if so desired. This does not apply when Phalanx units
are defending.
EXAMPLE: A Hastati stack and another Hastati unit receive 1
Hit from their attack. The Hit cannot be divided equally so it is
excess. There was no superiority and all units have the same Type
which was used to determine the Shock column on the Clash of
Spears and Swords chart. The attacking player gets to choose
whether to give the Hit to the stack or the lone Hastati. If he
chooses the stack, the top Hastati will incur the Hit.
10.14 When a unit has absorbed Cohesion Hits equal to or more
than its TQ rating, it routs (10.2).
10.15 If, during Shock resolution (8.43, 8.47), all attacking and
defending units would rout, the following occurs:
1. The attacker adds to his total Hits the number of Cohesion
Hits—if any—that he would incur were he to Advance after
Combat (8.5).
2. All units on the side with the unit that has the greatest discrep-
ancy between Hits and TQ rating rout (10.2). The units on the
other side do not rout. The Cohesion Hits on all units on the
side that did not rout are adjusted to the units’ TQ minus 1.
If the attacking side did not rout, the attacker Advances after
Combat (8.5). If the defending side did not rout, those units
remain in place.
3. If the difference between the Hits and TQ is the same for both
sides, the defender routs. The Cohesion Hits on all attacking
units are adjusted to the units’ TQ minus 1 and the attacker
Advances after Combat (8.5).
IMPORTANT: #1-#3 above only apply if all units involved
would rout.