9.8 ARTILLERY
9.81 Scorpios are Bolt-firing (B) engines with built-
in crews. The Scorpios have a TQ rating, and they
are treated as Light Infantry (LI) for movement and
when defending in Shock Combat or against Missile
Fire. Scorpio units are not Shock-capable and their only offensive
combat capability is to Missile Fire.
9.82 A Scorpio is in either Fire or Move mode. It requires an
Individual Order from any friendly leader to change its mode.
Scorpios in Move mode cannot fire, and conversely, cannot
move in Fire mode. A Scorpio that has had its mode changed to
Move cannot move in that Orders Phase, nor can a Scorpio that
has had its mode switched to Fire, fire in that Orders Phase. A
Scorpio unit in Move mode requires an Individual Order from
any friendly leader to move. Scorpio units do not need orders to
fire (see 9.85 below).
PLAY NOTE: The front side of the counter shows the unit in
Fire mode; the reverse side in Move mode.
9.83 Only one Scorpio unit may occupy any one hex. All other
stacking rules apply.
9.84 Scorpio units have no facing; they may move or fire in any
direction, regardless of the direction the actual counter is pointed.
All hexes are considered Front hexes.
9.85 Active Fire: Scorpios may fire of-
fensively twice per Game Turn (not Orders
Phase) during any friendly Orders Phase.
They do not need an order to fire and can
fire at any time during the active player’s Movement and Missile
Fire Segment, no more than one shot per Orders Phase. The first
time a Scorpio unit fires, place an ACTIVE FIRE ONCE mark-
er on it. The second time it fires, flip the marker to its ACTIVE
FIRE FINISHED side. A Scorpio that fires cannot do anything
else that Orders Phase (such as recover Hits).
9.86 Reaction Fire: Scorpios may fire twice per enemy Orders
Phase at any time during the enemy Movement and Missile Seg-
ment—and we mean “any”; they may fire even during enemy
movement! The first time the Scorpio unit fires, place
a REACTION FIRE ONCE marker on it. The second
time it fires, flip the marker to its REACTION FIRE
FINISHED side. Scorpios, however, cannot use any
type of ordinary Reaction Fire (8.2).
9.87 Scorpios incur and recover Cohesion Hits as any other unit.
A Scorpio that routs is immediately eliminated.
9.9 THE BARBARIANS
DESIGN NOTE: These rules reflect the capabilities and li-
abilities of the Celtic tribes that fought the Romans for control
of northern Italy during the period covered by SPQR.
9.91 Movement Effects
Barbarian Infantry (BI) units do not incur Cohesion Hits for
crossing or entering any type of passable terrain, nor do they
incur Cohesion Hits for changing facing in Rough terrain. BI units