9.2 SKIRMISHERS, VELITES, AND LIGHT
INFANTRY
DESIGN NOTE: Skirmisher units were truly ill-suited for
Shock Combat; they were, in fact, trained to avoid it. Skirmish-
ers rarely had any armor protection, and the only weapons
they carried were their bows, slings, or javelins. They fought
dispersed in “open” formation, and their intent was to delay,
harass and screen (although they were quite effective against
elephants and chariots). Velites were the first line of a legionary
deployment. Although more heavily armed than skirmishers,
their function and training were much the same. Their forma-
tion, however, was not so “open”, and they are not treated as
skirmishers; they are Light Infantry, which also have some
added maneuver capabilities.
9.21 Orderly Withdrawal: Skirmishers may Orderly
Withdraw up to 2 hexes before any units whose MA
is the same or less (i.e., all infantry units), regardless
of the MA differential. The only time Skirmishers
incur Cohesion Hits when using OW is after being approached
from a Rear hex. The only time Velites incur Cohesion Hits from
OW is after being approached from a Flank or Rear hex.
9.22 Missile Fire: There is a +2 DRM to the Missile Fire DR
whenever a Skirmisher unit is the target. Skirmisher and Light
Infantry Archers (Class A) cannot use H&D fire. Light Cavalry
(all missile classes) cannot use H&D against Skirmishers..
9.23 Shock Combat: Skirmishers have the following restrictions
when involved in Shock Combat:
• Skirmishers cannot Shock attack.
• All units that Shock attack Skirmishers alone do not have
to make a Pre-Shock TQ even if they have SHOCK MUST
CHECK TQ markers.
• If a Skirmisher unit is defending in coordination with any other
unit type, the other Type must be chosen as the defender. The
Size rating of the Skirmisher is ignored.
• Any Cohesion Hits inflicted by Skirmishers in Shock Combat
are halved (round down) with a maximum of 1 Cohesion Hit.
• Phalanx (PH), Heavy Infantry (HI), and Legion Infantry (LG)
units that are attacked from a Front hex by Light Infantry (LI)
do not undergo a Pre-Shock TQ check even if the attackers have
SHOCK MUST CHECK TQ markers, though the attacking LI
still do. The reverse is not true; PH, HI and LG do undergo a
Pre-Shock TQ check when attacking LI.
EXAMPLE: Thus, if a Light Infantry attacking a Skirmisher
would produce an unadjusted result on the Shock Results Table
of 1(4), the actual result would be 0(4).
9.24 Other situations:
• Skirmishers that Rout are eliminated instead.
• Skirmishers do not make an Elephant Pass-Thru Check (9.11).
• See 6.69 for special stacking rules for Skirmishers and Velites.
Skirmishers can change facing at no MP cost and can move
more than once per Game Turn without a Cohesion cost.
• When determining lines for a Line Command (4.32), the pres-
ence of a Velites or Skirmisher unit does not disrupt the line if