may move sideways into the vacant flank hexes (see the diagram
above). If a Flank hex is occupied, MLE cannot be used to place
a unit in that hex. The hex entered by MLE must be Clear and
not in an enemy ZOC. Facing remains the same. This rule only
applies to unstacking the units; it does not apply to stacking
them together.
9.67 Manipular Line Extension may be undertaken as a reaction
to enemy movement the instant an enemy combat unit comes
within 2 hexes of a line of stacked Roman units. The Roman
player may make his choice at any time any enemy unit so places
itself (that is, he does not have to exercise his MLE rights the first
time they become available). If enemy movement triggers both
Orderly Withdrawal as well as MLE, both may be undertaken
together but not by the same units.
EXAMPLE: A Velites unit sitting between two Hastati stacks may
withdraw through the gaps in a Hastati line upon approach of,
say, an enemy Phalanx and, as soon as that unit is through the
gap, the Hastati line may undergo MLE.
9.68 Manipular Line Extension may also be undertaken as part
of a Line Command (only). If undertaken as an LC, both units
may move after the MLE but with their MA reduced by 2. There
are no Cohesion Hits applied for the MLE. Units in Column may
not use MLE.
9.7 ROMAN TRIARII TACTICAL DOCTRINE
This rule must be used with any battle involving Romans that took
place prior to 200 BCE in which Scipio Africanus is not pres-
ent as Overall Commander (and, yes, even though, historically,
Scipio was at Cannae, for game purposes he wasn’t, so use it at
Cannae). It represents the way Romans used their Triarii, and,
for Rome, doctrine was the equivalent of unassailable dogma.
9.71 Triarii units cannot move, but may change facing, until and
unless one of the following occurs:
• There is an enemy combat unit, other than an Elephant unit,
which is within 3 hexes and LOS of any unit in the Triarii line,
or
• The Triarii units are at least 6 hexes from all other Roman or
Ala—but not allied–infantry lines, be they Hastati, Principes
or whatever.
9.72 Triarii units cannot move and Shock attack unless and until
the Roman army has Rout Points equal to at least one-half of
its Army Withdrawal Level (round down). They may always,
however, Shock attack (without moving) against enemy units
in their ZOC.