cannot use Column Movement (6.7), Pre-Arranged Withdrawal
(6.8), or Orderly Withdrawal (6.5).
9.93 Rout and Recovery
BI units can only remove 1 Cohesion Hit per Recovery order.
Depleted BI units do not Rout but are instead eliminated.
9.94 Barbarian Ferocity
DESIGN NOTE: This rule represents the feared, initial charge
of tribal-style warfare, into which the locals seemed to inject
all their pent-up anger, determination and initial enthusiasm.
Tribal tactics were simple: a big rush designed to swiftly break
the back of their opponent. It was usually quite effective, except
against a disciplined, professional army.
All BI units start the game with Ferocity. A BI unit with Ferocity
earns a –1 DRM to its Pre-Shock TQ die roll while penalizing
the defending unit(s) with a +2 DRM to their Pre-Shock TQ die
roll(s).
Ferocity continues until the BI’s leader (as given in the scenario
setup) fails a Ferocity check, which the player conducts each
time a BI unit Routs. The player rolls the die and compares it to
the leader’s Initiative Rating. If the DR is the same or lower, BI
units retain their Ferocity, otherwise Ferocity is permanently lost
for BI under the command of that leader. The loss of Ferocity for
the units under one leader has no effect on the Ferocity of units
under the command of different leaders.
9.95 Barbarian Impetuosity
At the start of a battle, the Gauls usually worked themselves into
a fever pitch, which translated into an all-out charge. To reflect
this, at the start of a game, all BI units have their MA increased
by 1. Leaders that command BI units receive a –1 DRM to all
first-try Momentum die rolls. Impetuosity lasts until at least two
BI units of a leader’s command enter an enemy ZOC, at which
point Impetuosity continues for the rest of the Game Turn, after
which it is lost. Only the BI units in that command (per the sce-
nario setup) are affected.
9.96 Gallic Chariots
DESIGN NOTE: The chariots used by the Gallic tribes were
not, in any way, weapons systems. They were used only for
transport. Their only resemblance to the war chariots of “days
gone by” was that they had wheels. Thus, ignore the reference
to Chariots on the Combat Tables. However, the tribes were
quite adept at using them to whatever advantage they did of-
fer. In this module, chariots make an appearance at Sentinum
and Telamon.
Gallic Chariot (CH) units have only a Movement Allowance;
they have no Size and no TQ Rating. These units cannot move
at all, and this includes Orderly Withdrawal, unless stacked with
an eligible Light Infantry (LI) unit. If an enemy combat unit (of
any type) moves adjacent to a CH unit alone in a hex, the CH
unit is immediately eliminated.
Each CH unit may carry one Light Infantry (LI) unit. To denote
that a LI unit is mounted on the CH unit, place the CH on top of
the LI unit. The combined CH and LI unit is treated as a single